# Equations:

## Gauss' law electricity

$\oint=\vec{E} \cdot d\vec{A} = q/\epsilon_0=k\pi kq$
Or $\nabla \cdot E = \rho/\epsilon_0=4\pi k\rho$ 
OR $\nabla \cdot D = \rho$ where $D=\epsilon_0E+P$

The electric flux out of any closed surface is proportional to the total charge enclosed within the surface.

The integral form of Gauss' Law finds application in calculating electric fields around charged objects.

In applying Gauss' law to the electric field of a point charge, one can show that it is consistent with [Coulomb's law](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/elefor.html#c1).

While the area integral of the electric field gives a measure of the net charge enclosed, the divergence of the electric field gives a measure of the density of sources. It also has implications for the conservation of charge.

## Gauss' law magnetism
$\oint=\vec{B} \cdot d\vec{A} = 0$ OR $\nabla \cdot \vec{B}=0$.

The net magnetic flux out of any closed surface is zero. Statement about the sources or magnetic fields. For a dipole, any flux directed inward in S pole will equal flux out of N pole (net flux=0). If monopoles exist, this would not =0 but have a magnetic current term. The divergence of a vector field is proportional to the point source density, so the form of Gauss' law for magnetic fields is then a statement that there are no magnetic monopoles.

## Faraday's law of induction

$\oint \vec{E} \cdot \vec{ds} = - \frac{d\Phi_B}{dt}$ OR $\nabla \times E = - \frac{\partial B}{\partial t}$

The line integral of E field around a closed loop is equal to the negative of the rate of change of the B flux through the are enclosed by the loop. This line integral is equal to the generated voltage or emf in the loop (basis for electric generators, inductors and transformers). [Voltage generated in a coil](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/farlaw.html#c1)

## Ampere's law

$\oint B \cdot  ds = \mu_o i + 1/c^2 \partial/\partial t \int E \cdot dA$

OR $\nabla \times B = \frac{4\pi k}{c^2} J + \frac{1}{c^2} \frac{\partial E}{\partial t}$

OR $\nabla \times H = J + \frac{\partial D}{\partial t}$, where $B=\mu_0(H+M)$. 

Static E field: lin integral of B field around a closed loop is proportional to the electric current J flowing through the loop. Used for [calculating magnetic field](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/magnetic/amplaw.html#c2).


# Charge conservation

Take divergence of differential form of Ampere's law: $\nabla \cdot \nabla \times B = \frac{\nabla \cdot J}{\epsilon_0 c^2} + \frac{1}{c^2} \frac{\partial(\nabla \cdot E)}{\partial t}$

The first term above is 0 by identity and using Gauss' law: $\nabla \cdot E = \rho/\epsilon_0$ and the result is $\nabla \cdot J = -\partial \rho / \partial t$.

# Electromagnetic waves

Take curl of Faraday's law: $\nabla \times (\nabla \times E) = - \frac{\partial(\nabla \times B)}{\partial t}$.

Substitute Ampere's Law for a charge and current-free region:

$\nabla \times (\nabla \times E) = - 1/c^2 \frac{\partial ^2E}{\partial t^2}$, which is a 3D wave equation in vector form. Reduced to a plane wave in $x$:

$\frac{\partial ^2 E_x}{\partial y^2}+\frac{\partial ^2 E_x}{\partial z^2} = \frac{1}{c^2} \frac{\partial ^2 E_x}{\partial t^2}$

[EM waves](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/Waves/emwavecon.html#c1)





