# Capacitors
$C=Q/V$

Adding capacitors in series $1/C_T = \sum 1/C_i$ (so you charge less capacitance in series than parallel). Reverse for parallel

# Resistors
$R=\rho L/A$: longer length = higher resistance. 

### For series: 

$R_T = \sum R_i$ so resistance adds in series. 

### Parallel
$R_{equiv} = V/I = \sum V_i/I = \sum \frac{V_i}{I_i}$ 

because $I_T = \sum I_i$, 

so $R_{equiv} =\sum R_i$.


Current parallel: $V/R_{er} = I = \sum I_i = \sum \frac{V_i}{R_i}$.

## Resistance and Capacitance:

Remember that rho=R*d/A 
and sigma=1/rho (ignoring tensor inversion, which actually is important in live systems)


# Inductor
$Emf = -L \frac{\Delta I}{\Delta t}$

units: Henry = V s / A

# Power 

$P=VI$ or power dissipated in a resistor is $P = I^2 R$. See power series and [parellel circuits](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/elepow.html#c1)


# EMF
Magnetic force exerted on charges in a moving conductor will generate at voltage (a motional emf). Generated voltage can be seen as the work done per unit charge (one setting in which generated emf is described by Faraday's law). 

Consider a loop of wire moving with velocity $v$ into a stationary $B$ field. $emf = FL/q = qvBL/q = vBL$ where $\vec{F}=q\vec{v}\times\vec{B}$.


Most generally: $emf=\frac{\Delta \Phi}{\Delta t} = \frac{\Delta (BA)}{\Delta t} = BL \frac{\Delta W}{\Delta t} = BLv$ (only in special case, like the loop in static $B$ field), where $\Phi$ is flux.

# Power
$W = \int_0^\infty L/2 \frac{dI^2}{dt} dt = LI^2/2$

## Coil

Change in B in the environment of a coil will cause an emf induced in the coil. Change in magnetic flux: $\frac{\Delta (BA)}{\Delta t} = Tm^2/s$.

V generated: $V=-N\frac{\Delta (BA)}{\Delta t}$, where N is number of winds of the coil. Here $BA=\Phi$.  Note the minus-- from Lenz' law: the polarity of the induced emf is such that it produces a current whose magnetic field opposes the change which produces it. 



# Dipoles

A negative field induces a negative dipole. 
$V_{dip} = \frac{1}{4\pi \epsilon_0} \frac{p \cdot \hat{r}}{r^2}$. Dipole moment from field of positive charges, mean negative is attracted to it. Dipole moments align with fields. 

e.g. + |     ( -   +) -> E field (points where the +'s are)
